The clock sample with many MVCs.
Here we are inside an empty project.
I've added the Mini and VCs framework and imported the samples.
Here, let's take a look at the version of the clock with many MVCs.
I'll start by running the sample.
Here.
We've got no real UI happening, but in the debug log console we have some debug log statements and
they're showing the elapsed time as long as the scene has been open.
That's it.
There's no UI, no functionality for input either.
This is the first time we've seen the file structure.
I have the example script itself which sits on a game object in the scene.
I have the clock mini class which gets created and contains all the concerns.
Then I have classes related to each of the concerns, model, view, controller and service.
One additional concept we haven't discussed yet is the context.
As we take a look at this code, look at the role of the context.
Here's the mini example itself.
It's a of behavior.
And on its start we instantiate the mini class object and we call initialize.
Here's the clock mini class.
This extends the mini and VCs framework class.
You can think of this as the parent object that holds all of the four concerns.
This is a generic class into which we pass the strong type of the context model, view, controller
and service.
Here's the initialize with the structure of mini MVCs.
All the major parts involved all have an explicit initialized call.
This is a great place for you to put any code that should happen exactly once as the systems wake up.
So what do we do in here?
First, we just make sure we have it initialized yet then we create the context model, view, controller
and service.
Notice that the constructors for each don't take any arguments except the controller.
This is one of our first examples in code where we see the controller is the most powerful and capable
of the concerns because the controller serves to be the glue that holds together the model view and
service we pass in those references so it knows how to manage and deal with them.
And finally, we follow the best practice where each of the concerns gets initialized.
Notice that everything takes the context and we haven't talked about the context yet.
Let's take a look.
Context is a framework class.
It implements the interface of AI context, and the rest of the system looks for that interface.
So you're free to create your own alternative to context simply by implementing that interface.
But I find for my uses, this base implementation usually serves my needs.
It has just two things within it.
It has a model locator and a command manager, both of which are publicly available from outside, and
they're created upon instantiation.
So what's the role of the contact?
You can think of the context as the messaging system that all of the four concerns have reference to.
What are the things any concern can do with it?
Well, by using the command manager, they can listen to any commands and invoke any commands.
That's the messaging portion and model locator.
While a more advanced concept optionally allows you to register any model and retrieve that model.
So any one of the concerns could register a model or listen to model events.
Down here in the constructor, we see that those two parts get instantiated, and as an experimental
feature, I have a context locator.
This allows any scope to add a context like we see here, and any other concern can get that context
if needed.
In more complex examples, we'll see.
This could be useful if your project has two different mini MV axes and you want to communicate between
them for this first sample, we won't get into that complexity so you can ignore this detail.
So that ends the high level discussion of this entire example.
We see that we have the mini parent object which has the four concerns within, and each of them has
a reference to the context from a high level.
It's important that we understand those basic concepts.
Feel free to rewatch this portion of the course to gain a clearer understanding.
Now let's go through each of the concerns and see how they operate.
We already looked at the context, so let's look at the model.
This is the first concern we've seen in code.
So we'll take a deeper look at how it's constructed and we'll see that all other concerns in this sample
and most of the other concerns in the other sample follow a similar pattern.
So in future discussions, we will not cover this as deeply.
Notice here that the clock model extends the base model.
Now extending any of the base classes is optional.
It comes with some free functionality, but you're free to approach it in an alternative way if you'd
like more flexibility.
So here we have a convention suggested, but there's flexibility for you to do your own solutions.
Let's take a look at the base model.
Base model implements I model, I model implements, I concern.
It's possible in future versions of the framework, we might do something custom here to model, but
for right now it just mimics what any other concern is able to do.
The I concern is able to initialize and accept a context so any class that implements this interface
is able to initialize accepting a context in the initialized method, and then it's able to store and
maintain a public property to that context.
So this is what all four of the concerns are able to do Now while the suggested usage patterns of how
we use a model is different than how we use a controller, know that under the hood they're equally
capable.
Again, this allows for ultimate flexibility.
Stepping back here as we see clock model extends base model, which we just explored, let's look at
the rest of how clock model operates.
You can think of the model as the data store for all runtime data.
Well, what does the clock example need?
Well, it needs the current time.
And then in our example, it maintains the delay.
Between each tick of the clock.
For us, it's going to be one second, so we'll see it display one second, then 2 seconds, then 3
seconds and so on.
The model, like any concern, has the initialize and the only custom functionality we do here is initialize
the value of our observable variables.
That's it for the clock model.
Next, let's look at the clock view.
The clock view implements eye view and just like we saw before, the eye view is able to have a initialize
and take a context that's about it.
So we won't explore that further.
We don't need any base functionality, so we don't use any base class here.
We just implement the view ourselves.
So we have some properties, some fields and we handle the initialization.
This is boilerplate stuff for any of the concerns.
The only thing custom we do here is we use the context.
This is our first use of seeing that we access the command manager within and we listen to a custom
command called the time changed command.
Any time the command manager invokes that command, we'll be able to listen to it here.
Now, this is the first chance to see Command manager in action.
So remember the key difference between commands and events with commands.
We don't need to know who will send this type of message.
We only subscribe to the middleman of the command manager and handle it that way.
It's a decoupled solution.
Each concern implements.
The required is initialized.
This is more of a best practice that I use instead of something specific to MVC frameworks, but I just
make a method that easily checks if we're initialized, and if we're not, it throws an exception.
We'll see that used at the top of pretty much every method in every concern.
It's a simple grade to gate check that your public methods aren't called too early.
Now, each time the command manager dispatches that related event, we're handling that here, we can
see that the first thing we do is ensure that we are indeed initialized.
We expect every time the scene runs will be initialized, fine.
This is just an additional gate check that ensures that the lifecycles are operating properly.
Then the only real custom piece of functionality we do here is debug.
Log out.
Remember, we don't have any on screen UI, we're not using any monte behaviors.
So our way to speak out through the View is just using a debug log statement.
This doesn't mean you would need to walk through these steps every time you debug log in your projects.
You do that as freely as you would in any typical project.
This is just a contrived, created example to show some sort of user feedback without any mono behaviors
or UI that keeps this example quite simple.
Next, let's look at the clock service.
The clock service extends base service.
As with all concerns that extend a base class that's optional, all it does is do the initialization
and context set up that we've seen in other concerns.
This service is designed to load something and then notify the system when that's loaded.
So we have a custom unity event here.
The actual data that gets loaded from this service is the time delay.
So that's made available here.
Inside the initialize, we do the basic concern setup.
The only thing really custom we do here is initialize that time delay from somewhere outside of this
scope load will be called.
And what we see here is very similar to the functionality of the non mini MVCs version we looked at
before.
It just loads a local text file, grabs the string value out of it types.
It is int and stores it for us.
Something of note here is that once the data is loaded, that loaded event is fired.
We haven't yet seen which scope is going to consume that event.
Next.
Let's look at the controller.
This is going to be the most complex concern of this sample and in most samples to controllers where
we'll see the bulk of the code, the clock controller extends base controller in this case.
And in all cases where you see a base class used, it's optional.
You can, of course create your own class that implements the controller.
But here we get some base functionality which is going to be handling the initialization and taking
in the context.
Because clock controller deals with some specific arguments, I've decided that base controller is a
generic and you pass in the strongly type values for the model view and service.
In the constructor, we pass the model view and service to the base class.
In the initialize, we do the typical thing that all concerns do, which is handle the initialize and
take in the context and store it.
The only real custom stuff we're doing here is listening to the model, subscribing to one of the observable
events and listening to the service so that we know when the service is loaded.
Now, while we've talked about the observable concept and we've seen the model source code, this is
the first place we've seen subscribing to the Unity event from one of the observable classes.
So any time model time value is set from any scope, this on value change would get fired.
And again, the use of observables is optional but recommended for all.
Properties within the model, you get this automatic paradigm of being able to set the value and being
able to listen to when that value has been set and changed.
So when that service is loaded, we update the model based on what the service got from its external
data.
And then we start the ticking of the clock.
The ticking of the clock operates very similar to how we saw the non mini NBC's version do it.
However, there's a key distinction.
Earlier I talked about how unity collapses model view controller in several areas of the unity engine,
one of which is that mono behavior itself is quite powerful and spans many concerns.
Now in the non mini MVCs example, I used a CO routine in order to call repeatable code because this
example uses no mono behaviors.
I don't have the same access to CO routine now.
There's lots of ways that I could fake it.
What I've chosen to do here is have a separate class which you're free to dig into if you like, and
all it does is call repeatable code.
I call that for this example Clock Helper.
How it works is outside the scope of this example, but just know it's a workaround for how to call
repeatable code.
And it was one of the solutions that I went with.
Something key to note here is here in the controller, every time the time delay happens, which is
every second, I'm setting the model data.
So we have the controller setting a value on the model.
And because we've listened to the unity event for any time, that model value changes, we get this
callback.
So here we are in the controller, subscribe to model changes and handling them, turning them into
commands.
That's a very common pattern that we'll see throughout MVC.
We take an event which is somewhat decoupled and we translate it into a command which is highly decoupled.
Remember, commands are able to be observed and listened to by any of the concerns as long as they have
access to the context, which all of our concerns do.
So any time you see invoke command, you can think that's a message like a radio station that any concern
can listen to.
This is a very powerful concept.
It offers you flexibility to communicate to and from any concern.
Now, while that's very flexible, we want to follow the basic conventions where controller is the main
concern that will be sending and receiving these commands, there will be exceptions and we'll see them
in the examples deciding exactly how you use unity events and how you use commands in your project is
part of the art of using MVC.
In earlier slides, I suggested conventions.
You're free to follow those.
I just recommend being consistent if you do apply any exceptions.
So that's it.
We've covered the creation of the context, the model, the view, the controller and the service.
Then we just initialize all of them.
So now from a timeline perspective, we did have a monarch behavior in the scene and on its start it
created the mini inside the minis initialize.
It created what we're seeing here, wiring up all of these different pieces and then initialize in this
particular example, because I'm familiar with how it works, I know that when the controller gets initialized,
that's what starts the ticking and really gets this example going.
That's it for the code overview.
This is probably the most dense code sample.
Despite being a simple sample, we've got a lot of concepts here.
We're taking all of the theory we've seen in the past slides and bringing it all together.
Let's take a look at the sample running one more time here in the scene.
I've selected a game object we can see in the inspector that game object just has the example and I'll
run the sample.
As it's running every time delay, which is 1000 milliseconds, means that we get one tick per second.
And our debug log statement shows up in the console.
That's the complete example.
We've seen all of the concepts of model view controller service.
How they get initialized, how the context is the glue that helps message all between them.
And you have an excellent foundation for seeing the theory we've learned applied in real C-sharp code.
So that's our first complete sample.
Seeing code running with mini MVCs.
While the use case is very simple, all we're doing is every second doing a debug log statement.
We see that we've got a lot of concepts to make that happen.
Now, this is the first example you'll see where when using a bespoke architecture, like many MVCs,
it feels verbose.
It feels like, Hey, couldn't we have done that in just one class like we did with the non mini MVC
version?
But remember, we want to invest in our software.
We want to use these best practices and it won't be in a ten minute example that we really understand
the full power ten days into a project, ten months into a project, having that proper code separation
that comes with a bespoke framework is incredibly powerful and pays dividends.
That's it for now.
Thanks.